the app.html in the ./app dir is the main html code that runs when we load the application
app.ts is the part where the app.component.ts is being mapped to

the class's field entered in app.ts can be used by {{}} in app.html

file structure of the angular project:
1. entire project's config is stored in tsconfig.json. even build config is stored here
2. the config of the src dir is stored in tsconfig.app.json. the config during dev env is stored here
3. config of test cases written to test is stored in tsconfig.spec.json.
4. angular.json = project's config that which file be loaded first, then which html will be loaded first, output path is also mentioned here, assets are written here, config of project, app, TS, specs like production's max size etc are written here
5. package-lock.json = (auto created) stores exact versions of various dependencies
6. package.json = stores the basic version that which versions are allowed to run the application
7. .editorconfig = code formatting options, editor configs are written here like font style etc
8. .angular = used for caching
9. node_modules = all the packages, lib, dependencies are stored here
10. src = application's code is written here
11. index.html = first html file that is loaded (HTML's entry point)
12. main.ts = first TS file that runs (TS's entry point)
13. public = static images / assets are placed here that are publicly accessed

INTERPOLATION
the technique of taking data from TS file and putting in HTML file is called interpolation. using "{{}}" in HTML to process a variable in TS.
we can also write some direct code of TS into the {{}}

benefits of interpolation:
1. "DISPLAYING DATA FROM TS TO HTML FILE"
2. "EXECUTE JS CODE IN HTML FILE"

we can write some math expressions to inside {{}} and it will be processed and the ans will be shown in the HTML file.
variables written in app.ts can only be used in app.html
in app.ts we mention template url which tells which html file can be interpolated with TS file

limitations in interpolation:
1. new variable can't be assigneed in HTML file
2. increment and decrement ops can't be used
3. for,while can be used in HTML file

ANGULAR CLI
used to run, test, debug angular application
to check whether angular cli is installed: ng version
to create new project: ng new "app-name"
to create component using angular cli: ng generate component "component-name"
to create pipe: ng generate pipe "pipe-name"
all the components / pipes are created in the ./src/app dir
to install external packages: ng add "dependency-name"
to get all the commands: ng help
to build application: ng build

COMPONENTS
they are the small parts of an application that can be reused again in some other project.
4 files are generated when a component is created:
1. .html = used for placing
2. .css = used for styling
3. .ts = used for writing logic
4. .spec.ts = unit testing of the component

to place a component inside another
1. in the .ts of the parent component import the component in the import array
2. in .ts file of the component, we have a @Component annotation and inside that we have the selector which is the HTML tag name to be used in the HTML file of the parent component.

NOTE:
we can create a function and call it using a button and using the (click) inside the button
function has to be declared in the .ts file of the component and then the functions can be called from the HTML file

DIRECTIVES
they add more power to DOM elements. its a class that adds additional behaviour to some elements in the application.
directives = ngIf, ngFor, ngStyle etc

3 types of directives = 
1. component directives: most common type of directives. used in component template file. provide the skeleton of the component
2. structural directives: used to manipulate a component like creating, deleting, changing a component etc
3. attribute directives: used to change the feature of the component

PIPES
they are some functions that help format the data when displaying on the HTML page. to use pipes we need to import CommonModule in the imports array of the component.ts file.
some functions performed by pipes are:
1. uppercase: convert everything in the variable to uppercase
2. lowercase: convert everything to lowercase
3. titlecase: "             "     " titlecase

CUSTOM PIPES   
custom pipes are the pipes that a programmer creates. can be created using ng generate pipe <pipe-name> command.
to use the pipe, we need to import the pipe in the imports array of the component and then use name provided in the <pipe-name>.ts file.
write the pipe's logic inside the function in TS file and take in the value / arguments as u like
